# Sentimental-Analysis
Comparing two different sentiment analyzers, which are TextBlob and Vader. For both tools, we determine the results with positive, negative and neutral.

## Sentiment Analyzer - Textblob
In order to apply Textblob [3], we need to install the library first. We then use tweets as our input data to analyze the sentiment, which the data is already preprocessed. There are two sentiment scores that we receive, one is the real-time data that was fetched in recent days, and the other is from the Kaggle website which is from 2019. To run with the dataset, we use built-in functions “TextBlob.sentiment.polarity” to get our polarity score. In Textblob, it uses a complicated technique known as “averaging” in mathematics to compute the scores. If the score is smaller than 0, it represents negative; if the score is bigger than 0, it represents positive; else it represents neutral. After receiving the result, we can see the polarity and the sentiment of each tweet showing in the plot.

## Sentiment Analyzer - Vader
For Vader [4], we do the same thing as Textblob, installing the Vader library and calling the object "SentimentIntensityAnalyser". We can see that in Vader, it returns a form like a dictionary which indicates the compound score and the distribution of 'neg', 'neu', and 'pos'. In this approach, the dictionary of 'neg', 'neu' and 'pos' means the percentage of combining every word’s rating in the sentence that is rated by Vader. Also, the compound score is the same as the polarity score in Textblob. The computation of this score is based on summing the valence scores of each word in the lexicon. To be more precise, Vader uses Amazon’s Mechanical Turk to get most of their ratings, which is a very quick and cheap way to get their scores. The threshold of the score at first depends on -0.05 and 0.05, however, it is normalized to be shown between -1 and 1 for easier representation.

## Comparison Between Tools & Problem Statement
In the resulting Figure 12, we can see that most of the sentiment categories are the same. However, there's a little difference between the positive and negative. Through the observation, we think it's because Vader has a better analysis with social media since it can deal with emoticons. Another discovery between both analyzers is that we found that the run time of Textblob is faster than Vader. We think that the reason for the different runtime might depend on the principle of their sentimental score computation. In conclusion, we think that Vader might be a better tool for our project.
